specs: permissions (#465)
bluesky-social/atproto-website: src/app/[locale]/specs/lexicon/en.mdx

- `repo`: public repository write permissions
    - `collection` (array of unique strings, required): indicates record types. Must include at least one element (not empty array). Does not support wildcard (`*`) in Lexicon schema context.
    - `action` (array of unique strings, optional): limits set of record operations. Values must be one or `create`, `update`, `delete`, case-sensitive.
- `rpc`: remote API calls via proxying or service token generation
    - `lxm` (array of strings, required): allowed XRPC endpoints, as NSIDs. Must include at least one element (not empty array). Wildcard (`*`) is not supported in Lexicon schema context.
    - `aud` (string, semi-required): remote service ("audience"). In the context of permission sets, can not have fixed DID service references. Supports wildcard (`*`), though `aud` and `lxm` can not both be wildcard. Required unless `inheritAud` is true. Effectively must be either wildcard, or undefined with `inheritAud` set to true.
    - `inheritAud` (boolean, optional): if true, `aud` does not need to be defined.

Note that the `blob`, `account`, and `identity` resources types are not supported in Lexicon schema context.

> Permission declarations with unknown resource types or unknown parameters (fields) must be ignored by services implementing access control. This is because the set of permissions is expected to evolve over time, and additional fields might attenuate the permission granted. It is unsafe to ignore unknown fields when parsing permissions for access control.

Reviewer: We should make it very explicit that `blob`, `account`, and `identity` must be ignored if present. Either like suggested here, or as an additional sentense in the previous paragraph.

```suggestion
Permission declarations with unknown or disallowed resource types or unknown parameters (fields) must be ignored by services implementing access control. This is because the set of permissions is expected to evolve over time, and additional fields might attenuate the permission granted. It is unsafe to ignore unknown fields when parsing permissions for access control.
```

`params` can not be declared as a top-level named type in a schema `defs` array. This means that they can not be referenced by a `ref` or `union`.

### `permission`

> This is a limited-scope type which is only ever used for the `permissions` field of the `permission-set` primary type, and should not appear in other schema contexts. They map to auth permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a limited-scope type which is only ever used for the `permissions` field of the `permission-set` primary type, and should not appear in other schema contexts. They map to [auth permissions](specs/permission).
```

Type-specific fields:

- `resource` (string, required): indicates what account resource is being accessed

Additional `permission` fields depend on the resource type being declared. The set of resources may expand over time, but currently includes:

- `repo`: public repository write permissions

>     - `collection` (array of strings, required): indicates record types. Must include at least one element (not empty array). Supports wildcard (`*`), but does not support partial-NSID glob patterns (`com.example.*`)

Reviewer: I would add a note here:

Only collections under the same authority as the permission-set can be granted access to. This means that `*` here is basically the same as `<permission-set-group-nsid>.*`

>     - `collection` (array of strings, required): indicates record types. Must include at least one element (not empty array). Supports wildcard (`*`), but does not support partial-NSID glob patterns (`com.example.*`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `collection` (array of unique strings, required): indicates record types. Must include at least one element (not empty array). Wildcard (`*`) or partial-NSID glob patterns (`com.example.*`) are **NOT** allowed.
```

Wildcards are actually **NOT** allowed here. The reason is that permission-sets can only reference NSIDs **under** (as in, same domain or strict subdomain) the same authority as the permission-set itself.

Any permission item containing `*` here **must** be rejected (TS implementation will ignore those)

We _could_, in the future, relax this to allow `*` here to mean `<nsid-group>.*` but this makes implementation harder since we don't allow partial wildcards in regular permissions.

    - `action` (array of strings, optional): limits set of record operations. Values must be one or `create`, `update`, `delete`, case-sensitive.
- `rpc`: remote API calls via proxying or service token generation
    - `lxm` (array of strings, required): allowed XRPC endpoints, as NSIDs. Must include at least one element (not empty array). Supports wildcard (`*`), but does not support partial-NSID glob patterns (`com.example.*`)
    - `aud` (string, semi-required): remote service, identified by DID service reference (DID followed by required service type fragment, eg `did:web:api.example.com#srvtype`). Supports wildcard (`*`). Required unless `inheritAud` is true.
    - `inheritAud` (boolean, optional): if true, `aud` does not need to be defined.
- `blob`: media file upload permissions

>     - `accept` (array of strings, required): mimetypes or partial mimetype glob patterns (`*/*` or `text/*` for example). Same syntax as the `accept` field in the `blob` lexicon type.

Author: I think this might be nice to add in the future, but we didn't include in this design, and I don't think we should iterate right now.

I agree there is some permission-leakage possible across permission sets, but I don't feel a large urgency around this right now.

- `account`: hosted account management
    - `attr` (string, required): an aspect or component of account. Wildcard is not supported.
    - `action` (string, optional): degree of control. Currently supports `read` or `manage`
- `identity`: network identity (DID) management
    - `attr` (string, required): an aspect or component of account. May be be wildcard (`*`)

>     - `action` (string, optional): degree of control. Currently supports `manage` or `submit`

Reviewer: There are not allowed in permission sets.

```suggestion
`account` and `identity` permissions **cannot** be granted through permission sets and **must** be ignored. This is due to the fact that permission sets are used to conceal multiple app specific permission under a single item in the consent screen. Because of this only resources (record types and lexicon methods) under the authority of the Lexicon document author can be listed in permission sets.
```

> See Permission specification for more details. Note that it might be possible to construct a valid lexicon `permission` type which is invalid or has undefined behavior as an auth permission.

Author: I added a section about this here in the lexicon document, but this also needs to be included in the permission spec.
